-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1



CERT Coordination Center Vulnerability Data Archive

Release 2016-03-30


Contents
========

1. Change Log
2. Manifest
3. Support/Feedback
4. Description
5. Data Format
6. Metadata
7. Field Definitions for Vulnerability Reports
8. Field Definitions for Vendor Records
9. Copyright and Usage


1. Change Log
=============

2016-03-30  Updated data

2014-12-08  Updated data, note significant number of nearly identical
            reports associated with automated Android SSL testing

2014-05-22  Updated data

2013-11-20  Updated data

2013-04-03  Updated data, added field definition for [DateCreated],
            fixed 8-bit characters in section 8

2012-07-10  Initial release


2. Manifest
===========

README.asc
CERT_vul_reports.xml.zip
CERT_vendor_records.xml.zip
CERT_vul_reports.json.zip
CERT_vendor_records.json.zip
support.zip


3. Support/Feedback
===================

We offer no formal support, however we may respond to questions and 
feedback sent to <cert@cert.org> with the tag INFO#365908 in the 
subject.


4. Description
===============

This data archive contains nearly all of the non-sensitive vulnerability 
data collected by the CERT/CC, from the inception of the vulnerability 
notes database (approximately May 1998) to the date the archive was 
prepared, as noted above in the Change Log.

Since roughly 2004, the United States Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT)
has funded the vulnerability analysis and coordination work that
includes this vulnerability data and the publication of Vulnerability
Notes:

  <http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls>

This data is incomplete.  All records (reports) should have an ID, 
title, and creation date.  Only some (~6%) of the reports have been 
analyzed, coordinated, written up, and published as Vulnerability Notes.

Most of the reports are in a preliminary state, with blank or default 
field values.  Few fields are consistently entered across the entire 
data set.  It is generally inappropriate from an analysis perspective to 
draw conclusions from incomplete and inconsistent data.  You have been 
warned.

There are two sets of data, vulnerability reports and vendor records.  A 
published Vulnerability Note is made up of one vulnerability report and 
one or more vendor records.

In this document, field names are enclosed in square brackets, like
this:  [FieldName].

Vulnerability reports describe information about a reported 
vulnerability.  A report may contain 0 or more vulnerabilities.  CERT 
typically attempts to have one vulnerability report per vulnerability, 
but this isn't always a practical level of abstraction. 
[VulnerabilityCount] is the number of vulnerabilities (per CERT's 
definition) in a vulnerability report.

Vulnerability reports have 0 or more associated vendor records.  Vendor 
records describe vendor information related to a vulnerability report. A 
record is typically created when CERT notifies a vendor about a 
vulnerability, reasonably believes the vendor may be affected, becomes 
aware of information about the vendor related to the vulnerability, or 
otherwise feels that there is relevant information about the vendor 
related to the vulnerability.


5. Data Format
==============

Archives of both data sets are available in both JSON and XML formats.
The archives each contain one ZIP archive file of the entire data set
and smaller files with 1000 records each.  Data is sorted
(alphabetically) by the [ID] field.

The vulnerability notes database is a Lotus Notes application.  The
domino_8_5_M2.xsd and domino_8_5_M2.dtd files included with this
distribution (in support.zip) may be of help processing the XML
formatted data.

Some fields are intially created as text and the field type is updated
only once data has been entered.  For example, a datetime field that is
blank may appear as a text field.


6. Metadata
===========

At the root level, [toplevelentries] is the number of records in the
data set.

Per record, [position] is the position of the record in the data set. 
Data is sorted (alphabetically) by the [ID] field.

[unid] is a Lotus Notes ID that is unique across all databases on a
server.

[noteid] is another ID used by Lotus Notes, unique within a database.

At least in these data sets, [siblings] is the number of records in the
data set.

Within a record, [columnumber] is just a 0-based sequential number for
fields.


7. Field Definitions for Vulnerability Reports
==============================================

Descriptions for fields included in published Vulnerability Notes are
also available here:

  <http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/html/fieldhelp>

Some of the fields in this archive are not included in published 
Vulnerability Notes.

[ID]
text
Vulnerability report ID, the format is VU#nnnnnn (six digits), with some 
older records having fewer than six digits.  This is the associated 
vulnerability report for the vendor record.

[IDNumber]
text
The numerical portion of the ID (nnnnnn, six or sometimes fewer digits).

[Title]
text
Title of the vulnerability report.  May be HTML-escaped.

[Keywords]
textlist
List of keywords.  These become HTML meta keywords in a published
Vulnerability Note.

[Overview]
text
Overview/summary of the vulnerability report.

[Description]
text
A detailed description of the vulnerability report.

[Impact]
The impact of the vulnerability.

[Resolution]
text
A solution to the vulnerability, typically a complete solution, such as
a patch or update.

[Workarounds]
text
Workarounds or mitigations for the vulnerability, typically something
less than a complete solution, but still effective at mitigating the
vulnerability.

[SystemsAffectedPreamble]
text
A preamble to the list of vendors.

[ThanksAndCredit]
text
Acknowledgement, credit, and possibly thanks to the person(s) or
organization(s) who discovered or reported the vulnerability or who
contributed to the coordination or analysis effort or information used
in the Vulnerability Note.

[Author]
text
This field is set to the name of the analyst who is first assigned the
vulnerability report.  When a report is published as a Vulnerability
Note, this field is the author.

[References]
text or textlist
URLs to reference information about the vulnerability report.

[CVEIDs]
text or textlist
List of one or more related CVE IDs.

[CERTAdvisory]
text or textlist
References to one or more CERT Advisories.

[US-CERTTechnicalAlert]
text or textlist
References to one or more US-CERT Technical Alerts.

[VulnerabilityCount]
number
The number of unique vulnerabilities in a vulnerability report.

[DateCreated]
datetime
Date the vulnerability report was created.  This closely corresponds to 
the date CERT was first aware of the vulnerability.

[DatePublic]
datetime
Date the vulnerability is known to be public.  This may be the date a
Vulnerability Note is published.  This field may only contain date
information, not time.

[DateFirstPublished]
text or datetime
Date the Vulnerability Note was first published.  This field is a text
type if it is blank, datetime when it is populated.

[DateLastUpdated]
datetime
Date the vulnerabilty report was last updated.

[Revision]
number
Number of times the vulnerability report was revised, with "1" being the 
initial creation of the report.

"VRDA_D1_" in the field name indicates that the field is used in the
first round of decision support (triage, surface analysis, or D1) to
determine how to handle the vulnerability report.  Although the
"VRDA_D1" component fields are text type, they can be safely treated as
numbers (integers).  "VRDA_D1" fields were added to the database in
2007.

More information about VRDA (Vulnerability Response Decision Assistance)
is available here:

  <http://search.cert.org/search?q=vrda>

[VRDA_D1_DirectReport]
text
If this field is set to "1" then the vulnerability was directly reported
to or found by CERT.  If this field is "0" then the vulnerability was
not a direct report or internal discovery.  If this field is blank then
the report may or may not have been a direct report or internal
discovery.

[VRDA_D1_Population]
text
This field answers the question "What is the population of affected 
systems?"  [VRDA_D1_Population] maps to [CVSS_TargetDistribution].
"1" - Low
"2" - Low-Medium
"3" - Medium-High
"4" - High (e.g., Microsoft Windows, Adobe Flash, TCP, DNS, core
UNIX/Linux)

[VRDA_D1_Impact]
text
This field answers the question "What is the impact of the vulnerabiliy?"
"1" - Low (e.g., nuisance DoS/resource consumption, limited information 
disclosure)
"2" - Low-Medium
"3" - Medium-High
"4" - High (e.g., execute arbitrary code with elevated privileges, take 
control of target)

"CAM_" in the field name stands for "CERT Advisory Metric."  More
information is available here:

  <http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/html/fieldhelp#metric>

If all of the "CAM_" fields in a vulnerability report are "0" then it is 
most likely that the vulnerability report has not been analyzed beyond 
initial creation and surface analysis.  Although the "CAM" component 
fields are text type, they can be safely treated as numbers (integers 
from 0-20).  The calculated "CAM" fields are number type.

[CAM_WidelyKnown]
text
This field answers the question "Is information about the vulnerability
widely available or known?"

[CAM_Exploitation]
text
This field answers the question "Is the vulnerability being exploited?"

[CAM_InternetInfrastructure]
text
This field answers the question "Is internet infrastructure at risk
because of this vulnerability?"

[CAM_Population]
text
This field answers the question "How many systems on the internet are at
risk from this vulnerability?"

[CAM_Impact]
text
This field answers the question "What is the impact of exploiting the
vulnerability?"

[CAM_EaseOfExploitation]
text
This field answers the question "How easy is it to exploit the
vulnerability?"

[CAM_AttackerAccessRequired]
text
This field answers the question "What are the preconditions does an
attacker require to exploit the vulnerability?"

[CAM_ScoreCurrent]
number
Calculated CERT Advisory Metric score, decimal number from 0-180.

[CAM_ScoreCurrentWidelyKnown]
number
Calculated CERT Advisory Metric score with [CAM_WidelyKnown] set to 20.

[CAM_ScoreCurrentWidelyKnownExploited]
number
Calculated CERT Advisory Metric score with [CAM_WidelyKnown] and
[CAM_Exploitation] both set to 20.

[IPProtocol]
text
IP protocol information related to the vulnerability, e.g., 80/tcp,
161/udp.

"CVSS_" in the field name stands for "Common Vulnerability Scoring
System."  More information is available here:

  <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide>

  <https://www.cert.org/blogs/certcc/2012/04/
vulnerability_severity_using_c.html>

Vulnerability Reports started including CVSS v2 metrics in March 2012. 
Older reports will have empty CVSS_ values.  Reports that have not been 
scored will have default CVSS_ values, including "--" for some fields.

[CVSS_AccessVector]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.1>.

[CVSS_AccessComplexity]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.2>.

[CVSS_Authenication]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.3>.

[CVSS_ConfidentialityImpact]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.4>.

[CVSS_IntegrityImpact]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.5>.

[CVSS_AvailabilityImpact]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.1.6>.

[CVSS_Exploitability]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.2.1>.

[CVSS_RemediationLevel]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.2.2>.

[CVSS_ReportConfidence]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.2.3>.

[CVSS_CollateralDamagePotential]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.3.1>.

[CVSS_TargetDistribution]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.3.2>. 
[CVSS_TargetDistribution] maps to [VRDA_D1_Population].

[CVSS_SecurityRequirementsCR]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.3.3>.

[CVSS_SecurityRequirementsIR]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.3.3>.

[CVSS_SecurityRequirementsAR]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.3.3>.

[CVSS_BaseScore]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i3.2.1>.

[CVSS_BaseVector]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.4>.

[CVSS_TemporalScore]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i3.2.2>.

[CVSS_TemporalVector]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.4>.

[CVSS_EnvironmentalScore]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i3.2.3>.

[CVSS_EnvironmentalVector]
text
See <http://www.first.org/cvss/cvss-guide#i2.4>.


8. Field Definitions for Vendor Records
=======================================

[ID]
text
Vulnerability report ID, the format is VU#nnnnnn (six digits), with some 
older records having fewer than six digits.  This is the associated 
vulnerability report for the vendor record.

[VendorRecordID]
text
Lotus Notes unique ID for a vendor record

[Vendor]
text
Name of the vendor.

[Status]
text
Status of the vendor with regard to the vulnerability.  By default, the 
status is "Unknown."  If we believe a vendor is affected, the status is 
"Affected" or "Vulnerable".  If we believe a vendor is not affected, the 
status is "Not Affected" or "Not Vulnerable".

[VendorStatement]
text
A statement about the vunerability by the vendor.  The statement in this
field is authenticated -- usually the text has been cryptographically
signed by the vendor or verified by CERT out-of-band.

[VendorInformation]
text
Information about the vendor about the vulnerability.  This is more
loosely vetted information, for example something available on the
vendor's web site.

[VendorReferences]
text or textlist
URLs to vendor reference information about the vulnerability.

[Addendum]
text
Additional comments or rebuttal from CERT to [VendorStatement]. 

[DateNotified]
datetime
Date the vendor was notified by CERT.  Notification implies at least
that CERT sent email to a last-known good contact at the vendor.

[DateResponded]
datetime
Date the vendor responded.

[DateLastUpdated]
datetime
Date the vendor record was last updated.

[Revision]
number
Number of times the vendor record was revised, with "1" being the
initial creation of the record.


9. Copyright and Usage
======================

Copyright 2012 Carnegie Mellon University.

This archive is funded and supported by Department of Homeland Security 
under Contract No. FA8721-05-C-0003 with Carnegie Mellon University for 
the operation of the Software Engineering Institute, a federally funded 
research and development center sponsored by the United States 
Department of Defense.

Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in 
this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect 
the views of Department of Homeland Security or the United States 
Department of Defense.

NO WARRANTY

THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE
MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, AS TO ANY
MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR PURPOSE OR
MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE
MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
INFRINGEMENT.

This material has been approved for public release and unlimited
distribution except as restricted below.

The Government of the United States has a royalty-free 
government-purpose license to use, duplicate, or disclose the work, in 
whole or in part and in any manner, and to have or permit others to do 
so, for government purposes pursuant to the copyright license under the 
clause at 252.227-7013 and 252.227-7013 Alternate I.

Internal use:* Permission to reproduce this material and to prepare 
derivative works from this material for internal use is granted, 
provided the copyright and "No Warranty" statements are included with 
all reproductions and derivative works.

External use:* This material may be reproduced in its entirety, without 
modification, and freely distributed in written or electronic form 
without requesting formal permission. Permission is required for any 
other external and/or commercial use. Requests for permission should be 
directed to the Software Engineering Institute at 
permission@sei.cmu.edu.

* These restrictions do not apply to U.S. government entities.

CERT(R), CERT Coordination Center(R) are registered marks of Carnegie 
Mellon University.

The domino_8_5_2.xsd and domino_8_5_2.dtd files included with this
distribution are copyright IBM Corp. and are redistributed under the
following terms:

  <http://www-03.ibm.com/software/sla/sladb.nsf/lilookup/
6E2A4D663F51089F85257789005D1025?opendocument&amp;li_select=
B7A592D4EEAFBC9185257789005D100E>

11) Licensee's license agreement with the end user of Licensee's 
Application must notify the end user that the Redistributables or their 
modifications may not be i) used for any purpose other than to enable 
Licensee's Application, ii) copied (except for backup purposes), iii) 
further distributed or transferred without Licensee's Application or iv) 
reverse assembled, reverse compiled, or otherwise translated except as 
specifically permitted by law and without the possibility of a 
contractual waiver. Furthermore, Licensee's license agreement must be at 
least as protective of IBM as the terms of this Agreement.

IBM Lotus Notes Redistributables

The following list includes files that are provided to You pursuant to
the Redistributables section of the IBM International Program License
Agreements License Information that applies to this Program:

All source files in the following directory may be redistributed in the
form in which the files were provided:
	- <Notes program dir>\xmlschemas

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v2.0.22 (GNU/Linux)

iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJW++RtAAoJEJk/JagjbDUCPwsH/2qL6dOuTCxRFrR3RZVG887x
mCM92mKmHsuhxaBpXa9gpiovP+lPfGGK/jQTVjfEzo8N/z3eMKL6SBEz6xY3lomT
9233RP+NdPi1VlQQIF3mkTBnsoDDUzL44MDSbI6dmQpBwVKLmzA20PTdxBhUuMFz
3JHo0vs1zPeKkUlTO6DLtBtpu42FXmYpIXhBjIPYK7Pb4IlvJ2kuIEJ+p6V5t0RB
A8dMrKmqQY5QRJ7U+W1Q7pYe4X0Qvt0tU/F1agLyhRPM7yPiBBuSAUjwkTxLkMnI
aX1GWzMQ07CZRVGkCf39TCDFDnCEdT1U9sP3zn20pQCKXepV1fxMVBJ+NJ3UzSo=
=2Hdb
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
